Doc 1 6 20 method references to fun interface constructors (#2838) (#2841)
JetBrains/kotlin-web-site: docs/topics/fun-interfaces.md

You can also use [SAM conversions for Java interfaces](java-interop.md#sam-conversions).

## Migration from interface with constructor function to functional interface

> Support for callable references to functional interface constructors is [Experimental](components-stability.md).
> It may be dropped or changed at any time. Opt-in is required (see details below), and you should use it only for evaluation purposes.
> We would appreciate your feedback on it in [YouTrack](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-47939).
>
{type="warning"}

> Starting from Kotlin 1.6.20, there is a support for callable references to functional interface constructors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from 1.6.20, Kotlin supports callable references to functional interface constructors.
```

> This support adds a source-compatible way to migrate from an interface with a constructor function to a functional interface.

Author: I disagree that this is awkward but I trust your experience and flair, rephrased.

> Consider this "legacy" code:

Reviewer: Not sure `legacy` is needed and correct here. Can't readers have this in their shiny new code?

Author: Well, they may, especially if they wrote their code one day before the release. Fixed.

```kotlin

> interface A { 

Reviewer: Can we please stop adding new A's and foo's? :(

There are consistent real-looking examples on this page, can we use them here somehow?

    fun foo() 
}

fun A(block: () -> Unit): A = object : A { override fun foo() = block() }
```

> If you want to migrate this code to the functional interface `A`, use the following code:

Reviewer: If we think that new way is better, let's call to action here instead of "if you want".

> To migrate this code to the functional interface `KRunnable`, use the following code:

Reviewer: Maybe add some rationale? Why would I want to migrate?

Reviewer: Or just say that fun interfaces make the same code more concise etc.

Author: Fixed.

```kotlin
fun interface A { 
    fun foo()
}
```

With callable references to functional interface constructors enabled, any code using the `::A` function reference will compile.

> You can preserve the binary compatibility by marking the legacy function `A` with the [`@Deprecated`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin/-deprecated/)

Reviewer: Same here – call to action would be better.

annotation with `DeprecationLevel.HIDDEN`:

```kotlin

> @Deprecated(message = "Your message about the depreciation", level = DeprecationLevel.HIDDEN)

Reviewer: `deprecation` and `depreciation` are two different words.

Author: Just a typo, thanks.

fun A(...) {...}
```

> Use the compiler option `-XXLanguage:+KotlinFunInterfaceConstructorReference` to enable this feature.

Reviewer: How to use it?

Author: It has plus inside it and no arguments. I looked through all our docs: we usually write such options without additional comments.

Reviewer: Ok, agree, such options are mostly used by advanced users.

You can also use [SAM conversions for Java interfaces](java-interop.md#sam-conversions).

## Migration from an interface with constructor function to a functional interface

> Support for callable references to functional interface constructors is [Experimental](components-stability.md).
> It may be dropped or changed at any time. Opt-in is required (see details below), and you should use it only for evaluation purposes.
> We would appreciate your feedback on it in [YouTrack](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-47939).
>
{type="warning"}

> Starting from 1.6.20, Kotlin supports callable references to functional interface constructors, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from 1.6.20, Kotlin supports [callable references](reflection.md#callable-references) to functional interface constructors, which
```

adds a source-compatible way to migrate from an interface with a constructor function to a functional interface.
Consider this code:

```kotlin
interface Printer { 
    fun print() 
}

fun Printer(block: () -> Unit): Printer = object : Printer { override fun print() = block() }
```

> Functional interfaces make the same code more concise. To migrate this code to the functional interface `Printer`, use the following code:

Reviewer: With callable references to functional interface constructors enabled
```suggestion
With callable references to functional interface constructors enabled, this code can be replaced with just a functional interface declaration:
```

```kotlin
fun interface Printer { 
    fun print()
}
```

> With callable references to functional interface constructors enabled, any code using the `::Printer` function reference will compile. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Its constructor will be created implicitly,  and any code using the `::Printer` function reference will compile. For example:
```

Reviewer: Sorry, redundant whitespace in this suggestion

> Its constructor will be created implicitly,  and any code using the `::Printer` function reference will compile. For example:

Author: ```suggestion
Its constructor will be created implicitly, and any code using the `::Printer` function reference will compile. For example:
```
